# grand_slam_tennis_visualizations
**Real-time Closed-Form Set and Match Win Probability Estimates  for Women’s 2019 Grand Slam Tennis**

Part of Jennie Miller's senior thesis presented to the Department of Statistics and Data Science at Yale University, advised by Professor Brian Macdonald. 

This project takes a unique approach to modeling win probabilities for women’s Grand Slam tennis tournament matches. While statistical prediction models have been published, the literature lacks models that give pre-match win probabilities and then update those probabilities in real-time. Moreover, the literature lacks calculation of probabilities for the possible *ways* in which matches can end in addition to the overall match win probabilities themselves. This project accordingly fills these identified gaps. We model exact pre-match win probabilities for all possible ways each set can end as well as overall match win probability for all women's Grand Slam matches in 2019, and then update all probabilities 'real-time' during matches. Since we use historical data from 2019, our notion of 'real-time' is constructed by revealing the results of each game in a step-by-step delayed manner, as if they were coming in live. Our project is divided into two main parts: pre-match modeling and in-match modeling. We use a mixed-effects model to predict pre-match game win probabilities and the probability density function (pdf) of the Poisson Binomial Distribution to calculate pre-match probabilities for each way each set of the matches can end. Considering all scenarios, we calculate overall pre-match match win probabilities. For our in-match approach, we again employ the Poisson Binomial pdf along with game-level results to auto-update all our probabilities real-time. This unique approach allows us to visualize the most up-to-date possible predictions at any given moment for who will win a given match and how the match will end. Animations are contained within this repository. 
